{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Although everyone knows that seawater is salty, few know that even small variations in ocean surface salinity (i.e., concentration of dissolved salts) can reveal important information about our planet. Over long periods of time, the amount of salt in Earth's ocean basins has remained relatively fixed. Short-term variations in salinity patterns\'97seen in weekly maps from NASA's Aquarius satellite instrument\'97reflect changes in the water cycle and ocean circulation, both of which are linked to climate. \
\
Salinity in the ocean is defined as the grams of salt per 1000 grams of water. One gram of salt per 1000 grams of water is defined as one practical salinity unit or one PSU. Salinity varies due to evaporation and precipitation over the ocean as well as river runoff and ice. 
\f1 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In the open ocean the range of salinity is generally from 32 psu to 37 psu.\'a0Along with temperature, it is a major factor in contributing to changes in the density of seawater and therefore ocean circulation.\'a0}